You ready?
No, just... Yeah, just... just
ignore the microphone.
Yeah, just... just act
as if it's not there.
Sing as if it's not there.
Yeah...
(German)
Okay?
Ready for them?
- Yes.
- Let's go.
If you're here,
then you already know who she is
and that is one of the most important
musical figures of our time.
Lydia Tár is many things:
a piano performance graduate
at the Curtis Institute
Phi Beta Kappa from Harvard.
She got her PhD in Musicology
from the University of Vienna
specializing in the indigenous music
of the Ucayali Valley in Eastern Peru
where she spent five years
among the Shipibo-Konibo people.
As a conductor, Tár began her career
with the Cleveland Orchestra
one of the so-called "Big Five."
A string of important posts followed,
including the Philadelphia Orchestra
the Chicago Symphony Orchestra
the Boston Symphony Orchestra
until she at last arrived here
at our own New York Philharmonic.
With the latter, she organized
the Highway 10 refugee concerts
in Zaatari
which were attended
by over 75,000 people.
She's become particularly well-known
for commissioning contemporary work
from, among others,
Jennifer Higdon, Caroline Shaw
Julia Wolfe and Hildur Gudnadóttir.
And she's made a point
of programming their works
alongside composers of the canon.
She's been quoted as saying
"These composers
are having a conversation
and it may not always be so polite."
Lydia Tár has also written music
for the stage and screen.
She is in fact
one of only 15 so-called EGOTs
meaning those who have won
all four major entertainment awards:
an Emmy, a Grammy,
an Oscar and a Tony.
It is, as you can imagine
an extremely short
and shimmering list
that includes Richard Rodgers,
Audrey Hepburn
Andrew Lloyd Webber
and, of course, Mel Brooks.
In 2010, with the support
of Eliot Kaplan
she founded
the Accordion Conducting Fellowship
which fosters entrepreneurship
and performance opportunities
for female conductors
allowing them residencies with
major orchestras around the world.
In 2013, Berlin elected Tár
as its principal conductor
in succession to Andris Davis
and she's remained there ever since.
Like her mentor, Leonard Bernstein
Tár has a particular affinity
for Mahler
whose nine symphonies she recorded
during her Big Five stints.
However, she never
managed to complete
the so-called "cycle" with
a single orchestra until now.
Under her direction,
Berlin has recorded
eight of the Mahler symphonies
saving the big one,
Symphony No. 5, for last.
Due to the pandemic
that performance
which was scheduled for last year
had to be canceled.
But I'm told that next month
she'll make a live recording
of Mahler's Fifth
which will complete the cycle
and will be issued in a box set
by Deutsche Grammophon
just in time for Mahler's birthday.
As if that's not enough,
her new book, Tár on Tár
will be published
by Nan Talese's imprint at Doubleday
just in time for Christmas,
a perfect stocking stuffer
especially if you have
a very large stocking.
All of us at The New Yorker
welcome you.
Thank you for joining us, Maestro
- today.
- Thank you, Adam. Thank you.
Thank you.
Lydia, I couldn't...
I couldn't help
but see you flinch just a little bit
as I was reading your bio.
Was it because I forgot
some other amazing achievement?
Or do you have
a slight self-consciousness
about the incredibly varied things
that you've accomplished?
Well, in today's world,
"varied," it... it's a dirty word.
I mean, our era is one of specialists
and if you're trying to do
more than one thing
it's, you know,
it's often frowned upon.
Every artist gets typecast.
Oh, yes. Aggressively so.
Well, do you think
there'll be a moment, though
when the classical music community
decides not to use
sexual distinctions
to differentiate artists?
I'm probably the wrong person to ask
since I don't read reviews.
- Never, really?
- No.
But it is odd, I... I think,
that anyone ever felt compelled
to substitute "maestro"
with "maestra."
I mean, we don't call
women astronauts "astronettes."
Right.
But as to the question of gender bias
I really have nothing
to complain about.
Nor, for that matter, should
Marin Alsop, JoAnn Falletta
Laurence Equilbey
and Nathalie Stutzmann.
I mean, there's so many
incredible women who came before us.
You know, women who did
the... the real lifting.
That... that's fascinating.
Can you... Who, for instance?
Okay, sure.
First and foremost, Nadia Boulanger.
I mean, that would be
the... happy example.
The sad one would be Antonia Brico
who by all accounts
was an incredible conductor
but was ghettoized
into the non-glamorous status
of a "guest conductor"
and essentially treated as a dog act.
A dog... She never got the chance
to lead a major orchestra?
Well, yes. Yes, she did conduct
the Berlin Philharmonic,
as well as the Met
but, again,
only as a guest conductor.
You know, at, I mean,
at that time it was...
it was all gender spectacle.
But fortunately, times change
and... and the Pauline
conversion is...
- "Pauline..."
- if not complete
then it's... it's evolving nicely.
N-No less
having fallen off its horse.
Lydia, could we talk a little bit
about translation?
'Cause I think there's still people
who think of the conductor
as a kind of human metronome.
Well, yeah,
that's... that's partly true.
- Yeah, but it's...
- But keeping time
it's... it's no small thing.
But I suspect
there's a lot more to it than that.
Yeah, well,
I... I would hope so, yes.
But time is the thing.
Time is... is the essential piece
of interpretation.
You cannot start without me.
See, I start the clock.
Now, my left hand shapes,
but my right hand, the second hand
marks time and moves it forward.
However, unlike a clock,
sometimes my second hand stops
which means that time stops.
Now, the illusion is that like you,
I'm responding to the orchestra
- in real time, making the decision
- Right, right.
About the right moment
to restart the thing, or reset it
or throw time out
the window altogether.
The reality is that
right from the very beginning
- I know precisely what time it is
- Really?
And the exact moment
that you and I will arrive
at our destination together.
You know, the only real discovery
for me is in rehearsal.
It's never, never in performance.
Hard question, I know
but if you could define one thing
that Bernstein gave you
what would it be?
Kavvanah.
Yeah, it's... it's the Hebrew word
for attention to meaning
or... or intent.
You know, what are
the composer's priorities
and what are yours, and how do
they complement one another?
Right, kavvanah. I think
that's a word that will have
a slightly different meaning
for many in our audience.
Well, yes, yes, I imagine so.
Am I right in thinking that
a conductor was not always
an onstage presence
- in classical music?
- No, that's right.
I... I think I read someplace
that it actually was
the first violin, for a long time
- who was responsible.
- Yes, the first violinist
whether they had any interest
or... or skill in it or not.
W-when did that change,
and... and who changed it?
With the French composer,
Jean-Baptiste Lully
who reportedly used
a rather enormous rather pointy staff
to pound the tempi into the floor.
It's not something I imagine
the players particularly appreciated.
Anyway, that technique ended
during a performance
when Lully accidentally
stabbed himself in the foot
with the thing and died.
Yeah, of... of gangrene.
But anyway...
Yeah.
Anyway, but the conductor
really becomes essential
as the ensembles get bigger.
And once again,
we go back to Beethoven.
Now, that doesn't start
with the eighth note.
The downbeat...
it's silent, right?
So someone had to start that clock.
Someone had to plant
their flag in the sand
and say, "Follow me," you know?
And when that someone was Lenny,
the orchestra was led
on the most extraordinary
tour of pleasures.
'Cause he knew the music,
Mahler especially
as well or better than anyone.
And he would often play
with the form.
'Cause he wanted an orchestra to feel
that they had never seen,
let alone heard
or... or performed any of that music.
So he... he would do radical things
like disregarding the tempo primo
or... or ending this phrase
molto ritardando
even though it had no such marking.
Was he over-egging it?
Oh, no, no, no. Not at all.
He... he celebrated
the joy of his discovery.
You told us a moment ago
that your discovery
takes place in rehearsal.
When will that process
begin again for you?
We start on Monday.
Immediately?
With this one, it really is about
trying to read the tea leaves
of... of Mahler's intention.
I mean, we know a great deal
about this with his other symphonies.
You know, he was so inspired
by the poetry of Rückert
that for years he didn't set
another author to music.
But all of this changes
with the Five.
The Five is a mystery.
And the only clue he leaves us
is on the cover
of the manuscript itself.
Yes, the... the dedication
to his new wife, Alma.
So if you're gonna partner
with Mahler on his fifth symphony
the first thing you must do
is try to understand
that very complex marriage.
And would you say that you have
a different interpretation
of that marriage than Bernstein did?
You mentioned my ethnographic
fieldwork in the Amazon.
Well, Adam, the Shipibo-Konibo
only receive an icaro, or song
if the singer is there, right?
On the same side of the... the spirit
that... that created it.
And in that way, the past
and the present converge.
It's the flip sides
of the same cosmic coin.
That definition of fidelity
makes sense to me.
But Lenny, he believed in teshuvah.
The... the Talmudic power
to reach back into time
and... and transform the significance
of one's past deeds.
So when he played the Adagietto
at Robert Kennedy's funeral
it ran for 12 minutes.
He treated it as a mass.
And, you know,
if you listen to a recording of it
you will no doubt feel
the tragedy and... and the pathos.
And of course that interpretation was
very true for Mahler later in life
after the professional bottom
dropped out
and Alma had left him for Gropius.
But, as I said before,
we are dealing with time.
And this piece was not born
into aching tragedy.
It was born into young love.
And so you chose...
Love.
Right, but precisely how long?
Well...
seven minutes.
I was so taken
by what you said to Adam
about interpretation
and specifically about feelings,
and that you chose love.
And I know it's said that
you should leave the tears
for the audience, but...
do you ever find yourself
overwhelmed by emotion
when you're up there at the podium?
Yes.
Yes, that does happen.
There's an...
an expectation-reward cycle
with some works and the spots in them
that I find so incredible,
that when I'm conducting
it's not that I'm rushing exactly
but I just can't wait
to get to that spot
and, yeah, it does it.
It does it every time.
So it's physical
as well as emotional.
God, it must take hours
to come back down to earth.
You say things after others
remember, but you won't.
And sleep, it's impossible.
It's like my freshman year at Smith.
Which piece does that to you?
Oh, I saw you.
I saw you conduct The Rite of Spring
at the Met last year.
It was so powerful.
Thank you.
Thank you. It's...
It's the 11 pistol shots...
it's a prime number...
that strike you
as both victim and perpetrator.
You know, it's not until
I conducted it
that I became convinced
we're all capable of murder.
That is a fantastic handbag,
by the way.
Thank you. I'm glad you like it.
Oh, I do. I do.
Sorry. Your lunch with Mr. Kaplan.
His driver is waiting.
All right.
I'm sorry, I've forgotten your name.
- Whitney. Whitney Reese.
- Whitney.
Whitney, of course.
I'm... I'm so sorry
and unfortunately
I've left things a bit late
and there's something
I can't get out of.
I understand. Can I text you?
It's perfect, Aldo.
Oh. I was hoping we could celebrate.
No. So was I.
I've got a class at Juilliard.
Oh, good.
I promised Ben.
I'm sure you'll have a few elbowing
for an Accordion slot.
We should open up the fellowship.
- What, expand our numbers?
- No, our sex.
I mean, it feels quaint
to keep things single-gender.
We've made our point.
And, honestly,
we've had no real trouble
successfully placing any of them.
Except one.
Oh, well.
She had issues.
So I've heard.
The topic comes up
in every Citibank meeting
with her father.
I'm sorry about that.
It's fine.
It's nothing I can't handle.
So, you want to torpedo
Accordion's founding principle?
We'd likely lose donors.
Yeah, I suppose that's true.
M-Maybe it's something
we revisit down the line.
Sure.
Now, Bryant Park's locked
for the 25th.
Nan asked me to help fill the place
so the Kaplan Fund is gonna buy
some radio and outdoor advertising.
And claqueurs.
It's too big, Eliot.
She should have booked the Strand.
Relax.
It'll be great.
And it almost falls on your birthday.
I was... I was sorry
you weren't able to make it
to my Mahler Three in London.
Me, too.
Petra had a school thing.
And I promised Sharon I'd be there.
Of course.
I was just hoping
for your honest opinion.
My player rating sheets
were off the charts.
Those are confidential, Eliot.
Well, the principal oboist
is a big fan.
On the way back, I was listening
to yours with the Israeli Phil
and I was struck
by what you managed to pull
from the strings
in the last movement.
I mean, how did you get them there?
Was it the hall?
Was it the players?
The players weren't very obliging.
The principal violinist came up to me
after the first rehearsal
- and asked if I was a Jew.
- What?
It seemed to him unusual,
if not suspicious
that a non-Jew would be interested
in conducting Jewish music.
Felt like Max Bruch.
Well, big Jew that I am
the Kaplan Fund has
committed a sizable amount to them
for a klezmer commission.
Maybe they'll invite me
to guest conduct.
Oh, well, they'd be lucky
to have you.
Oh, please.
I know my place.
Money can't always
buy you everything.
You don't really believe that.
I'll have you know
I tried to bribe Francesca
to let me look at your notation.
She sent me packing.
Good girl.
That gentleman sitting
over there with the gnome
is urgently focused on our table.
At first, I thought
he was looking at me
but I think he's got his eye on you.
Please try and ignore him.
I can excuse myself
and go wash my hands
if you'd like to be alone.
And I would never forgive you.
The last thing I need
is to be buttonholed in here
by someone exactly like me.
What time are you leaving tomorrow?
Francesca's looking into flights.
Well, call her off.
Leave when you like.
You don't have to do that.
My motives are not
entirely altruistic.
Just one peek. One peek
at your performing score.
Fine.
Would 5:15 be okay?
- Sure.
- Okay, I mean, I do...
I have to get turned around fast.
We're filling a vacant position.
Oh, please tell me it's Sebastian.
Now, be fair, Eliot.
Sebastian has decent technique.
He has baton.
A month ago, I dropped into Bunkamura
to watch the touring machine
trot out Chopin 1.
Ol' Sebastian really is
Mr. Tempo Rubato.
Robot-o is more like it.
Why do you keep him on?
Oh, he's Andris's man, you know that.
Exactly. You inherited that decision.
Seven years is a long time
to pretend you respect it.
They have different
labor contracts over there.
He's a... he's a strange guy.
Who? Andris?
No, Sebastian.
He has... fetishes.
Fetishes? Like what?
Nostalgia for pre-war
Kalmus miniature scores
dead-stock pencils he's seen
von Karajan hold in photographs.
You know, that sort of thing.
That's just sad.
Yeah, but you're not wrong.
I am gonna have to rotate him
at some point.
For who?
What Love Teaches Me.
That string notation.
Mahler gives it to you himself.
- Come on.
- Trust me.
You do not want to go to school
on someone else's
red and blue pencil.
Least of all, mine.
Oh, but I do.
All right.
Will you quit pestering me?
Yes.
Free bowing.
It's not pretty
for an audience to look at
but if you can manage to keep
your players out of the weeds...
the sound's ferocious.
There's no glory for a robot, Eliot.
Do your own thing.
All right...
Let's... stop here.
- Thank you, Max. Very good.
- Thanks.
Just for my own edification...
why did you come to Juilliard?
It's the best music conservatory
in the country?
People from Curtis, Eastman,
and others may beg to differ.
I mean, Juilliard's a brand, right?
So, did you come to study
with a brand?
- No.
- No, right.
So there's a teacher or graduate
somewhere down the line
who, you know, conjured
something in your imagination.
Someone you aspire to be yourself.
So, who was that?
Sarah Chang.
So you're a violinist?
- Yeah.
- All right, okay.
Well, I can see why you would choose
to conduct a piece like this.
Must be a familiar pleasure
in presiding over
a bed of strings that behave
as if they're tuning.
Now...
this piece is very au courant.
I mean, here, the composer tells us
to begin with "back-and-forth
tremolo strokes with wire brush
and slowly sliding
crotales over skin."
Sounds like René Redzepi's
recipe for reindeer.
It's exciting to play
new music, isn't it?
- Yeah.
Great. All right, please,
join the other fellows.
Now, I know you're all
conducting students of Mr. Wolfe's
but how many of you
are also studying composition?
Right, what's your name?
Olive Kerr.
All right, Olive.
What do you make of
what we've just been listening to?
It's pretty awesome.
I mean, there's
incredible atonal tension.
I agree about the tension part.
Now, you can intellectually
contemplate, or masturbate
about the felicity
of the so-called "atonal"
but the important question here
is: What are you conducting?
What is the effect?
What is it actually doing to me?
Good music can be
as ornate as a cathedral
or bare as a potting shed
so long as it allows you
to answer both those questions.
Max.
Come on, what do you think?
When... Anna Thorvaldsdóttir
gave her master class
she said she was often
influenced by the form
and structure of landscapes
and nature she grew up within.
But I'm not sure
she was interested per se
in describing those actual sounds.
Very Punkt Kontra Punkt.
Yes.
The intent of her composition
is vague, to say the least.
So, if her intent is vague
how do you, as a conductor,
have a point of view about anything?
Now, to be fair, I mean
there are times when you will
simply have no choice.
And you will be made
to stand in front of an orchestra
and pretend that there are
these invisible structures.
But my prayer for you
is that you will be spared
the embarrassment
of standing on the podium
with a 4'33"
trying to sell a car
without an engine.
Because now, my friends,
now is the time to conduct music
that actually requires
something of you.
You know, music that everybody knows
but will hear differently
when you interpret it for them.
For instance, Max, why not a Kyrie?
You know, like, something
like Bach's Mass in B minor.
I'm not really into Bach.
You're not into Bach?
Oh, Max.
Have you read the Schweitzer book?
No.
Well, you should.
It's an important text.
Now, Antonia Brico thought so.
So much so that she shipped
herself to Equatorial Africa
and canoed up the Congo River
to track Schweitzer down
and ask him to teach her
what he knew about Bach.
I mean, somewhere,
I've got a picture of her in a...
in a pith helmet.
I mean, have you...
have you ever played
or... or conducted Bach?
Honestly,
as a BIPOC, pangender person
I would say Bach's misogynistic life
makes it kind of impossible for me
to take his music seriously.
Come on.
What do... what do you...
what do you mean by that?
Well, didn't he sire, like, 20 kids?
Yes, that's documented.
Along with
a considerable amount of music.
But I'm sorry, I'm...
I'm unclear as to what his
prodigious skills in the marital bed
have to do with B minor.
Sure.
All right, whatever.
That's... that's your choice.
I mean, after all,
"a soul selects her own society."
But remember,
the flip side of that selection
closes the valves of one's attention.
Now, of course, siloing
what is acceptable or not acceptable
is a basic construct of many, if not
most, symphony orchestras today
who see it as their imperial right
to curate for the cretins.
So, slippery as it is
there is some merit
in examining Max's allergy.
Can classical music
written by a bunch of straight,
Austro-German, churchgoing white guys
exalt us
individually
as... as well as collectively
and who, may I ask,
gets to decide that?
You know, what about Beethoven?
You into him?
Because for me, as a U-Haul lesbian
I'm... I'm not too sure
about old Ludwig.
But then, I face him.
And I find myself nose-to-nose
with his magnitude and inevitability.
Come on, Max. Indulge me.
Let's allow Bach a similar gaze.
Sit.
Now, this is all filigree, right?
I mean, it could be
a first-year piano student.
Or Schroeder playing for Lucy
Or Glenn Gould, for that matter.
Now, it's not until it changes...
you get inside it,
that you hear what it really is.
It's a question.
And an answer.
Which begs another question.
There's a humility in Bach.
He's not pretending
he's certain about anything.
'Cause he knows
that it's always the question
that involves the listener.
It's never the answer, right?
Now, the big question for you
is: What do you think, Max?
You play really well.
But nowadays, white, male, cis
composers, just not my thing.
Don't be so eager to be offended.
The narcissism of small differences
leads to the most boring conformity.
I guess Edgard Varèse is okay.
I mean, I like "Arcana," anyway.
Oh, well, then you must be aware
that Varèse once famously stated
that jazz was "a Negro product
exploited by the Jews."
Didn't stop Jerry Goldsmith
from ripping him off
for his Planet of the Apes score.
It's kind of a perfect insult,
don't you think?
But you see, the problem
with enrolling yourself
as an ultrasonic epistemic dissident
is that if Bach's talent
can be reduced
to his gender, birth country,
religion, sexuality, and so on
then so can yours.
Now, someday, Max,
when you go out into the world
and you guest conduct
for a major or minor orchestra
you may notice that the players
have more than light bulbs
and music on their stands.
They will also have been
handed rating sheets
the purpose of which is to rate you.
Now, what kind of criteria would you
hope that they would use to do this?
Your score reading and
stick technique, or something else?
All right, everyone,
using Max's criteria
let's consider Max's thing.
In this case, Anna Thorvaldsdóttir.
Now, can we agree
on two pieces of observation?
One, that Anna was born in Iceland.
And two, that she is,
in a, I don't know
Waldorf teacher kinda way,
a superhot young woman.
Show of hands.
All right, now let's turn our gaze
back to the piano bench up there
and see if we can square
how any of those things
possibly relate to the person
we see seated before us.
Oh, where are you going?
You're a fucking bitch.
And you are a robot.
I mean, unfortunately
the architect of your soul
appears to be social media.
You want to dance the mask,
you must service the composer.
You gotta sublimate yourself,
your ego, and, yes, your identity.
You must, in fact, stand
in front of the public and God
and obliterate yourself.
All right.
During the lockdown, you did
something I thought remarkable.
You made music for free.
Anyone at all could stream
Berlin performances
without ever paying a dime.
Well, that... that was a...
it's a democratically made
decision by the players.
And though I... I wish I could
claim the idea was mine
it really did spring
from the heart of Sharon Goodnow.
Sharon is your partner.
You have a child together
and she's also the concertmaster
for Berlin. Does that ever...
- Yes, that's right.
- Complicate things for you?
Your work getting into your home
or the other way ar...
Jake said he was certain you'd be
happy with the drape of the seat.
I will be
if I can keep the fat off
until next month.
You never gain weight.
Your... your mother texted me.
She knows you're busy
but is hoping to drop by.
Next trip.
What are you thinking for dinner?
No.
No, I'm... I'm gonna stay in
and put this piano to good use.
I'm suspicious
of the E natural in the cello line.
Doesn't it sound like
warmed-over Charles Ives to you?
Not... not at all.
But don't worry, I'll call Houston.
They'll be flexible.
You must have some New Haven friends
you want to see tonight?
No. Not really.
Should I stop by later for notes?
No, that won't be necessary.
Okay.
Oh, I... I almost forgot, but...
this was left for you
at the front desk.
By who?
They didn't say.
Wh-What, no card?
No.
Okay, just...
just leave it over there.
Thanks.
Good night.
Night.
You're listening to
All Things Considered from NPR News.
All Things Considered
is brought to you
by the Corporation
for Public Broadcasting
- Public Broadcasting.
- and I Eat Ears
feeding the discerning listener
since 2008.
- 2008.
- I Eat Ears
- I Eat Ears,
- and you should, too.
And you should, too.
And now, more from NPR.
Over the next few weeks, we'll be
hearing poems from four finalists
for the National
Youth Poet Laureate Award.
When were you informed of this?
Just this morning.
Mr. Kaplan was very apologetic.
I was able to get us on
the 7.00am you like, through Munich.
The connection's short,
but special services are standing by.
Where are things with DG?
Please tell me
they've finally woken up
to see the wisdom of
honest-to-God LPs for this release?
No movement there yet.
Have you looked
at the email I drafted for you?
Sent it last night.
Well, just forward me their response.
What's your take
on The New Yorker talk?
It went well, I thought.
Oh. You're hedging.
I was garrulous.
No.
No, not at all.
You... you were fabulous.
Francesca.
If you have any real interest
in conducting
you need to be able
to speak your mind.
Okay. Perhaps you...
You could've made less
of the relationship with...
Lenny?
No. I... I was thinking
about Mahler and Alma's.
You implied that she betrayed him.
I'm not... I'm not sure
I agree with that.
Oh, really?
Alma was a composer, too
but he insisted
she stop writing music.
He said there was only room for...
- One asshole in the house?
- One asshole in the house. Yes.
And she agreed to those rules.
No one made that decision for her.
#RulesOfTheGame.
Okay.
How was your evening?
Yeah, uneventful.
Are there any of Sharon's pills left?
No, but Dr. Korovin called these in.
Thanks.
I received another weird email
from Krista.
How should I reply?
Don't.
This one felt especially desperate.
Do you have some kind
of profit-sharing deal
with the utility company
that I am unaware of?
The flutter's back.
It's... It's racing.
I can't find my Metoprolol anywhere.
Oh, fuck.
I found this
lying loose in the drawer.
Is this the right one?
Yeah.
Thank you.
Is that a new bag?
Oh, it's just a gift from Eliot.
You want it?
No.
Suits you.
Let's slow this down
to 60 beats a minute.
Actually, it's 64 beats.
Tried calling you
on your mobile last night.
And again at the hotel.
Must've been asleep.
You never sleep that deeply.
No, no, don't be a scold.
Feelin' a feelin'
For somethin' there ain't too much of
I'm worried about Petra.
She's starting
to disappear into herself.
Be specific.
She keeps coming home
with bruises on her shins.
And then when I ask her
about it, she gets quiet.
I mean, I hope
it's just playground football
and not some Biodeutsche thing.
We talked about this.
But maybe we just need to put more
effort into finding her a friend.
Last year was really hard
to be locked up alone
with two old ladies like us.
She's old enough to learn piano.
I'll teach her.
Yeah.
That might be good.
How's your heart?
Better now.
Knock, knock. Who's there?
Lenny?
Walter?
Oh, it's you, MTT.
Why do you insist
on holding things up like that?
Your business here is rejoicing
not screaming
like a fucking porn star.
Michael Tilson Thomas...
Hello, Petra.
Why are you lurking?
Tell me and I'll help.
Sharon?
I'm taking Petra to school.
Oh, okay.
- Come on.
- Tschüss.
Who'll bear the pall?
"We," said the wren,
"both the cock and
- the hen."
- The hen.
"I'll..."
"We'll bear the pall."
And who'll sing a psalm?
"I," said the thrush
as she sat on a bush.
"I'll sing a song."
"Who'll toll the bell?"
"I," said the bull,
"because I can pull.
I'll toll the bell."
All the birds of the air
fell a-sighing and a-sobbing
when they heard the bell toll
for poor Cock Robin!
It's gonna be okay.
All right. Okay, which one is she?
The red one.
- Bye.
- Go on.
Hallo, Johanna.
Hello. Hi.
They're all in the chamber hall?
Yes.
No.
Good morning.
Oh, I'm sorry, Maestro.
We weren't sure you were coming.
We were told there might be
a scheduling conflict.
Would you like me to take notes?
No, thank you, Sebastian.
That won't be necessary.
Do we all have our rating sheets?
We narrowed it down to three.
So, unless anyone has
other business to discuss
let's bring in number one.
Goossens stands, sounds his A.
And of course, Léon was rather famous
for his rather wide vibrato, huh?
Beecham looks up and says,
"Gentlemen, take your pick."
How's the writing going?
I never know
how to answer that question.
No.
Makes it sound like a physical act.
Like, how's the shitting going?
Okay.
How's the thinking going?
Yeah, not so well.
I keep hearing something
and getting excited
only to catch myself in pastiche.
It's all pastiche.
We all have the same musical grammar.
Just look at Beethoven Five.
The third movement's theme has
the same sequence of intervals
as the opening theme of
the final movement of Mozart Forty.
Th-that could've been a coincidence.
No. Not in this case.
If you examine
the sketchbooks he used
29 bars of Mozart's finale appear.
Copied out by Beethoven.
Oh, my God. I find that
extremely depressing.
I finished reading your manuscript.
It's very good, Lydia.
One for the ages.
And, I dare say, will be available
long after my book
has been forgotten.
Oh, yes, you're right.
The entire first printing
will always be available.
Too modest, as usual.
Thank you, Andris.
I'll cherish this.
You may use it.
A... a blurb for the covers.
Oh, thank you.
I'll send it to the publisher.
Hopefully, there's still time.
I'm proud to call you my pupil
even though there was really
nothing I could teach you.
Now, that's not true.
I'd never have the position here
were it not for you.
Then you'd be in London, New York.
They're not Berlin.
Besides, I'm not sure
what Sharon would do
were we ever to leave.
She's so close with her family.
Ah, yeah, the Goodnow sisters.
I remember the elder one
being an absolute ball-breaker
while she still held sway at DG.
Heike is a woman of many opinions.
And that voice.
I mean, the signal-to-noise ratio,
it's unbearable.
I've had to bolt-hole
at my old place in town
to get any writing done.
Schopenhauer measured
a man's intelligence
against his sensitivity to noise.
Didn't he once also throw
a woman down a flight of stairs
who later sued him?
Yes.
Although, it's unclear
this private and personal failing
is at all relevant to his work.
You're late.
- Here, give me your stick.
- Thank you.
I've got it.
Okay.
(German)
Okay?
But it's also...
It's like we're hearing it
from a very, very great distance.
So it's...
Sorry. Is Harald nearby?
(German)
Harald? I was just wondering
if you might
quickly rig something up for us?
Good, good, good.
(German) Harald?
(German)
We'll want the same backstage setup
for the live recording.
One, two, one.
(German)
Okay? Looks great, but...
we need to hear it. Okay? It's not...
Hey.
(German)
Okay?
No. (German)
It's... it's much too slow.
(German)
Okay.
Okay, tutti.
(German)
How are things feeling up here?
- Fine, yeah.
- Yeah, actually great
but it's a shame we don't
record this one direct-to-disk.
It's criminal, is more like it.
Will you shoot me the MP3s?
Yeah, sure,
but don't you want WAV files?
No, just think what people
will actually be streaming.
What about video?
Yes, yes. Stage left A camera.
- Okay.
- All right. Thanks, guys.
Okay. Bye. You're quite welcome.
(German)
- There?
- Yeah.
You want us to come...
- to come in stronger there?
- Okay, then yeah.
Here, 'cause the reigning dynamic
is forte, which is not good.
- Yeah?
- Yeah.
Just one small thing, Maestro.
During the scherzo
th-th-the clarinet solo's
still a bit too loud.
It should really be
an accompanying figure
to the first violins.
But apart from that,
I'd say we're in very good shape.
Thank you, Sebastian.
Thank you.
Accurate assessment?
I don't think so.
The clarinet is marked piano,
and we are marked pianissimo.
Sebastian likes to sit in the stalls
but there's no problem
with the balance in the circle.
Something a bit more playful.
Oh, and here's something
Tanya and I did with Gustavo.
I think it's very powerful.
Yes, it's... it's really
wonderful work, Karl.
I'm just wondering if we might try
something a little less considered.
Something simple like this?
I'm not sure
how you would want to light it.
Have Harald dim
the houselights to half.
Houselights down half, please.
I mean, we could make it work, but
we'd have to bring in some lights.
If we want to do something like this
we'll have to bring the hot lights
next week, Tanya
forget about the strobes.
Thank you for waiting.
Of course, Maestro.
How are we feeling
about today's rehearsal?
Well, Sebastian thinks
your solo in the scherzo
is a bit loud.
It's possible.
I don't agree.
Your dynamic marking is higher
than that of the first violin.
Yes, that's true.
Look. Sebastian's getting old, Knut.
I'm rotating him out.
You're the first to know.
Well...
then I will organize a caucus,
and we'll take a vote.
No. No, you won't.
A vote must be taken.
I am familiar with
the electoral conclave.
But the appointment
of the assistant conductor
is entirely my decision.
Yes.
So, I can count on
your support with the others?
Yes.
Good.
Who will you replace him with?
Oh. I'm considering a few names
but the main thing is
we proceed with this immediately.
I understand.
Maestro, the other players
would like to know
if you have chosen
the companion piece.
Okay. Thanks.
- I...
- It's okay.
Thanks.
Changing major to minor
I'm sorry, I knocked.
I knew you wanted your keys back
as quickly as possible.
Yes, thanks.
- Did you use the company card?
- Yeah.
We can use it for your...
your taxi home.
Yeah. It's all right. You can go.
It wasn't just the keys.
I... I need someone to hold me.
This isn't the place, Francesca.
You're... That's not about...
I just...
I just got this
from someone over at Accordion.
Oh, no.
When did this happen?
Day before yesterday.
That email she sent you,
it felt like she was already...
Delete it. And the rest.
There's no reason
to get caught up in any intrigue.
Now, now.
Come on. There's nothing
we could have done to stop her.
She wasn't one of us.
I can't stop thinking
about our trip up the Ucayali.
- The three of us were so close.
- Yes.
But that was before
she started making demands.
No. There was just something
not quite right about her.
She had so much promise.
She did.
Yes.
Almost as much as you.
Now, we have to forget about her.
You understand?
Right?
- I'm sorry.
- No.
I know you're working.
Your...
Your keys are on the kitchen table.
She went straight to sleep.
Didn't even have to hold her foot.
And she came home
in a much better mood.
Oh, attagirl.
Met the new cellist today.
Oh, what was that like?
Olga Metkina.
Russian.
Strong player.
Good.
Her facial posture is a bit much.
How so?
Her legato. Looks like
she's on the verge of climaxing.
She is young.
So you've met her.
No, no.
Francesca mentioned something.
I think she's arranging
a welcome lunch.
You may want to hold off on that.
Her invitation is conditional.
You have reservations?
No.
Not really.
We need to see if she fits in.
Did you take your pill?
No.
Thank you for reminding me.
How was Johanna yesterday?
She stays away now.
Good. You let me know
if that changes.
Petra, last night, you weren't,
by any chance, in my study?
No, Lydia.
Because you do know you're not
supposed to be in there without me.
I know.
That's right.
It's not so simple.
It's got... it's got to be messier.
Moment. It's...
(German)
Okay?
A lot of pressure. Okay?
Forget Visconti.
Okay? It's so familiar
to everyone here.
It really doesn't help you
to know this piece so well. Okay.
Same place.
Just a little crescendo...
now let the third come through.
Please.
Please, please, please.
You must watch.
It's completely free here.
Okay?
It's got to be like just one person
singing their heart out.
And...
you're playing like an...
exercise.
Okay.
Once again
from the top of the Adagietto.
Okay.
Maestro.
What a surprise.
I was just having a spot of lunch.
C-Can I offer you anything?
No, thank you.
- Well, some tea, perhaps?
- No, thank you, Sebastian.
You know, I forget sometimes just how
impressive your collection is here.
Is that Kalinnikov?
Yes.
Isn't he marvelous?
He belongs in a museum.
I rescued him for a hundred rubles
from a Kyiv street fair back in '90.
Right after the Wall came down.
That must really have been something.
Oh, incredible
to have lived through it.
I'd only just arrived here
with Andris
and suddenly
the impossible was possible.
Yeah.
I'd like to talk about that.
- The reunification?
- No, no.
But please, sit down.
No, about the possibility of you
fronting a subscription orchestra.
But I already do.
Yes, but not as Kapellmeister.
If not now, then when, Sebastian?
You mean leave Berlin?
Well, rotate somewhere, yes.
But this is my home.
Our only home is the podium.
We all live out of a suitcase.
You know that as well as anyone.
Just think about it.
Take your time.
It's not something
we need to decide now.
It's the girl, isn't it?
I'm sorry, what girl?
You're not asking.
You're telling.
I knew as soon as she showed up
that my days here were numbered.
Andris told me not to worry, but...
I knew.
I'm sure I don't know
what you're talking about.
Oh, please.
Just because nobody dares breathe it.
We know the things you do.
The little favors you grant.
I'm...
I really don't know
what to say, Sebastian.
I mean, you of all people
have the temerity
- to question my integrity?
- No, no.
I'm... I'm sorry, Maestro.
- I don't know what I'm saying.
- No, no, no, it's clear
you know exactly what you're saying.
I mean, if that's how
you really feel about me
then wouldn't you say that staying is
entirely out of the question?
No, no, please, Maestro.
Please forgive me.
For what?
Your obsequiousness,
your hypocrisy, your misogamy?
I'm not a misogynist!
Misogamy.
It's a hatred of marriage.
Andris is still very much married.
And you occupy an apartment
on the same floor, don't you?
I just don't like what he's implying.
It could lead
to more than Chinese whispers.
I know.
We barely survived Der Spiegel
when you and I came out together.
But with Francesca,
no one could point their finger.
It's not like
you two are in a relationship.
Yeah, that's true.
I just... Turns my stomach to think
the old robot will be right
about something.
He's probably already run to Andris.
Well
is there someone other than Francesca
you feel is more qualified?
There are others equal to the task.
Maybe wait to decide.
Where are we at with DG?
I spoke to an assistant
in Boyd Muir's office
who said they weren't sure why
they decided on a digital-only set
what the criteria were.
But I do know they just did
a full-vinyl pressing for Long Yu.
Of course they did.
The Chinese market's incredible.
All right. Gloves off.
I'm going straight to Lucian.
Maybe he needs to be reminded of
his Annenberg Inclusion Initiative.
You've got
his contact details, right?
I'll send it to you right now.
My machine's misbehaving again.
I've already spoken to IT.
Just here... let me borrow yours.
Thank you.
Where's the matcha?
I wasn't sure where you were.
Was working out a kink.
The... the matcha's cold.
- I... I'll get another.
- It's all right. I don't need it.
Let's just keep working.
Francesca, you did as I asked
and deleted any and all
correspondence with Krista, correct?
I'm not sure.
I'm... I'm not sure.
I'll double-check.
You know, Sebastian's leaving us
and I wondered if you might compile
a list of suitable replacements.
Of course, feel free
to add your own name.
Thank you.
Oh, your... your lunch
with the new cellist.
Oh.
Meant to have you reschedule that
'til after the orchestra votes.
I'll text her now.
No, wait.
Might as well see what she's made of.
This food.
The cucumber salad's very good.
It's kind of the only real option
in this place if you're vegetarian.
Do you eat fish?
Not really.
You know, we can go somewhere else.
L-Like the Store Kitchen.
I mean, it's... it's kind
of a silly tradition really
that new members are brought here
to sup with the ghosts of the past.
I mean, at some point, everyone
from... from Napoleon to Beethoven
tucked in for a meal
at one of these tables.
Yes, and Clara Zetkin.
I wonder which one.
Who's that? It's a musician?
No. She helped found
Social Democratic
women's movement in Germany
and KPD until Hitler came to power
and she was exiled to Soviet Union.
- Clara Zetkin?
- Yes.
Every March 8th
we place flowers at her plaque
in Kremlin Wall Necropolis.
Her birthday?
No, International Women's Day.
Are you ready, Maestro?
- Yes...
- Yes, first shashlik, then veal.
For you?
- Cucumber salad. Thank you.
- Good choice.
Some more bread?
It's good. Would you like a bite?
Oh, no.
No. Thank you.
Have you lived in Berlin long?
No, not at all.
I have friends in Wicker I visit
until I know decision of orchestra.
Simonov will hold your place?
Yes, I think so. He is my uncle.
Oh.
But my dream has always been
to play with Berlin.
Oh, me, too.
There's nowhere like it.
I imagine Rostropovich is
a hero of yours.
Well, of course, he was great.
We study him at Moscow Conservatory
but growing up, my favorite
is Jacqueline du Pré.
She made me want to play cello.
Which record was it?
Not record. YouTube.
Elgar Concerto.
Oh, of course.
With Barenboim conducting
the London Phil.
I don't know who was conducting.
But she did something to me.
That's when I decide to learn piece
and play it with youth orchestra.
Quite a challenge. How old were you?
Thirteen.
Wow.
I'd love to hear it.
They make video. I will text to you.
Beautiful.
Very nice indeed.
Let's leave it here.
Tomorrow we'll begin
with the Rondo-Finale.
Now, just before we break
I know many of you are wondering
what the companion piece will be.
And I have been thinking
quite a bit about it
and was wondering
if we could just take
an informal poll about
possibly pairing the Five
with Elgar's Cello Concerto.
Wonderful.
Elgar it is.
Oh, and... given what
we've all been through
what we're still going through
and we're finally back together
as a family, I... I...
I feel that maybe the soloist should
come from within our own ranks.
Yeah.
Good.
Okay, good. Just... Sorry.
One more question.
And this really is
just for you, Gosia.
I mean...
as a practical matter, I mean,
this would normally fall to you.
But given how much is gonna be
asked of you with the Mahler
I... I wondered
if you'd be at all bothered
if we were to hold auditions?
Well, that's a bit unorthodox.
But, in theory, I have no objection.
My only hesitation will depend
on when these auditions
might take place.
I wouldn't want them in any way
to interfere with our sectionals.
No, no. That's a good point.
I mean, it's gonna have to be a...
It's gonna have to be a sprint.
How about Monday?
All right.
Okay, good. Knut, would you assemble
a quorum for Monday?
Let me see what she says.
Okay, I got... I gotta go.
Britta, hi.
Lydia.
Just caught the end.
What'd you think?
How's it... how's it sounding?
Oh, it's fantastic.
I can't wait
until the live recording.
Yes, well.
I'll be happy when it's over.
It's always that way.
I know you're busy,
and I don't want to add to your load
but...
Andris Davis called.
Look, he's upset
I'm rotating Sebastian.
No... no.
Something else.
But you will please let Laura know
as soon as you have chosen
his replacement
so she can prepare a press release.
Yeah, of course.
So what did he want?
To complain about
the punctuality of a driver
he seems to believe
the board supplies him with.
Do you know anything about this?
Yes.
No, it's just... it's just
something I pay for.
Then why does he believe
it's the board?
Because he needs to believe that.
H-He needs to b...
needs to believe
he hasn't been forgotten, Britta.
The academy
has von Karajan's name on it
and there are love shrines
to Abbado all over this place.
But the name of Davis,
it's essentially nowhere to be seen.
All right.
Then perhaps Francesca could
have a word with the driver.
Of course.
One other thing.
It's unpleasant.
Oh, is it?
Operational shortfall?
Must I take Mrs. Sewing out
to drinks again?
No, no, no, nothing to do
with the orchestra.
Do you remember
an Accordion Academy fellow
named Krista Taylor?
Yes. Why?
Apparently, she committed suicide.
Oh, God. Poor thing.
Her parents mu...
Wait, sorry, I'm...
I'm confused, Britta.
Why... why were you put
in the position
to deliver this terrible news?
Why didn't Accordion
contact me directly?
It's delicate, Lydia.
Mr. Kaplan thought it might be best
if you contacted a lawyer before
speaking with anyone at Accordion.
Well, presumably, that
anyone includes Eliot himself.
I'm... I'm sorry, why... why
would I need to do that?
Apparently, some accusations
have been made.
Accusations?
What kind of accusations?
He didn't say.
But they were brought
to Accordion's counsel.
Mr. Kaplan said he's certain
nothing will come of it
but one can't be too careful.
I'm sorry about the hour.
It's Lydia Tár calling.
I need to speak
to Mr. Singer immediately.
Yes.
Yes, it's urgent.
Tired?
Sleep's elusive.
I was the same
before a recording date.
Lydia...
are... are you absolutely certain
about Sebastian?
Who will you replace him with?
Possibly Andrew Crust.
He's been assisting
Otto Tausk at the VSO.
Not the girl?
Andris...
have you ever had an issue
with a... a student or colleague
where that person may
have misinterpreted your...
- intention?
- Has someone been complaining
- about me?
- No, no, no, of course not.
Because at this point,
they've missed their chance.
- I'm out of the game.
- Yes, yes, I know, I know.
Course you are.
Thank God I was never pulled
from the podium like Jimmy Levine.
Or hunted like Charles Dutoit.
I take it you're asking for a reason.
Well, there's just been
so much of this sort of thing
in the news lately.
Well, nowadays, to be accused
is the same as being guilty.
But I suppose that was also the case
all those years ago with Furtwängler.
A bit with Karajan, too.
Who was the better conductor?
I never played under Furtwängler.
Yeah, when I first arrived here,
the older members had...
hushed opinions.
At the same time,
they wanted to leave that era behind.
- What, the war?
- No, postwar.
Denazification.
Someone pointed a finger at you,
process started all over again.
Furtwängler never joined the Party.
Refused to give the salute or
to conduct the Horst Wessel Lied.
Or to sign his letters,
"Heil, Hitler."
Even those he wrote to Hitler.
But he was obliged to be denazified.
Until then, he was semi-retired
playing corpses.
Playing corpses?
Secretly performing in a graveyard.
You're not equating
sexual impropriety
with being an accused Nazi?
Either way, you had to be ready.
For years, I made sure
all the hangers in my closet
were facing the same direction.
How many are auditioning on Monday?
No one.
No one?
Maybe Martin.
He's never gotten along with Gosia.
He would love
to sit downstage for once.
Well...
he's still gonna have to audition.
Of course.
Have to follow the rules.
Aren't we being
a bit formal, Francesca?
From what I understand,
there's only one player, right?
No, Maestro, there are two.
Well, it's unanimous.
Number two.
And we have a problem.
She's not officially been invited
to become a member of the orchestra.
Well, she wouldn't need
to be to solo for us.
I believe the criteria
of the audition
was all section members?
- Then her audition gets thrown out.
- No.
Francesca, please ask Martin
to come back in
so we can give him the news.
Wait. Gosia, let's talk.
Shit!
Yeah!
I'll confirm
solo rehearsal dates with her.
Thank you.
Have a seat.
I have made a decision
regarding Sebastian's replacement.
And I want you to know
it wasn't an easy one.
This position brings with it
enormous responsibility
and my personal affection
for you aside...
I will have to go with
someone more, more experienced.
Oh, leave me alone.
I don't have your paper.
I've told you before, I...
Oh, I'm sorry. Please come in.
Good. Good.
I... I think the contrast is,
it's much better now.
Don't you think?
How do you take your coffee?
Black. Strong.
Is all right if I play?
Oh, yes, of course, of course.
That's as far as I've gotten.
But it's good.
This part here.
Maybe change A to B-flat?
That's better. I like that sound.
Come on. Take a break.
Okay.
Sharon?
Hello.
Petra.
What are you doing in here?
I'm hiding from her.
Why?
Because she told me
to put my things in order
but they already are.
I can see that.
Come on.
They're all waiting for you.
I'm going to give everyone a pencil.
All of them?
They can't all conduct, honey.
It's not a... it's not a democracy.
Okay.
Very nice. We'll go back
to the Allegro Molto after the break.
(German)
Hey, that's good. You happy?
How long were you
acquainted with Miss Taylor?
Oh, I'd have to double-check
with my assistant
but cumulatively speaking, I'd say
not more than a few months.
Thank you for your time
- Maestro.
- Not at all.
This recording will exist
on a protected server
under attorney-client
privilege with Mr. Singer.
- Great.
- He will follow up with you
to help prepare for the deposition.
Deposition?
Yes.
I assumed you were aware.
Mr. Singer's office said they'd been
coordinating with your assistant.
Francesca, you'd better get
your pretty little ass to work
right now.
The only communication
we've received from Francesca
was an email to my assistant
in the middle of the night
tendering her immediate resignation
stating she would be in contact
when she had more details to provide.
What kind of details?
A new address, I suppose.
In the meantime,
we've been trying all morning
to find someone suitable
to assist you on a temporary basis.
For now, perhaps your new assistant
conductor would be the right fit.
No. No. He's not available
'til after the live Five date.
Yes, I'm ready. Let's go.
I know how much you depended on her.
Two-faced little bitch.
Imagine her hurt, Tár.
- Don't you dare try to defend her.
- God, slow down!
She'll come galumphing back.
I mean, I've got a dumb phone
- like every robot. How hard
- Tár, s...
can it be to text all day?
Slow down!
Or let me out!
Francesca!
Fräulein?
(German)
Come.
Sorry I'm late again.
Do you live here?
Not normally, no.
Make yourself at home.
I'm just gonna put something on.
Do you have a towel?
- Yes.
- Thank you.
I got caught in the rain.
There is small concert
with musician friends.
You should come.
Thanks, but I...
really must get home.
You have child, yes?
I will not do that.
Pets are better for some people.
What... Oh.
- Sorry.
- Bye.
Oh, yes. Goodbye. Yes.
- Goodbye.
- Okay.
- Oh.
Oh, Olga!
Olga!
Olga?
Hello?
Why didn't you go to the police?
I fought. He ran. What's to tell?
Oh, God. I'm gonna get you
something for the pain.
- No, I don't need anything.
- No, I'm gonna get you something.
Ja.
Lydia!
What is it?
Hold my foot.
Is that better?
Yes.
Okay.
Let's shoo the elephant
from the room.
"What the hell happened to her face?"
"Did she schedule a nose and eye job
and bail before the surgeon
finished the other half?"
No.
I was... I was attacked.
Thank you.
I'm fine. Really.
Should've seen the other guy.
All right.
Second movement, let's take
the transition Bar 406.
Don't. It burns.
You must see the doctor.
He's booked 'til next week.
I'll call them again and tell them
- how much pain you're in.
- No, no, let's just...
let's just finish up here.
Okay?
Overall, the balance feels right.
Other than a quick brush-up,
we should concentrate on the Elgar.
You're certain of that?
I think so. Yes.
We're absolutely rock-solid there
but I am going to try
to hold them back here.
They're just getting caught up in
the power of your glissando in there
trying to match it.
Probably...
Where were you attacked, Maestro?
Oh, doesn't matter.
Here.
Thank you.
There you are.
When did this fall happen?
It's all a blur.
Three, four days ago.
It's just my shoulder.
Yeah. It kind of burns,
like I fell asleep by the pool.
Okay, you can
put your shirt back on.
You've damaged some nerves.
The burning sensation you're feeling
is called notalgia paresthetica.
Nostalgia?
"Notalgia." No "S."
Well, how do we treat it?
You don't. Eventually, it goes away.
An adjustment might help.
You're somewhat crooked.
Oh, well, then you must be
a Negro product
exploited by the Jews.
Now let's turn our gaze back
to the piano bench up there
to a superhot young woman.
That's... that's...
that was very good.
Now, you could masturbate
but what are you
actually doing to me?
- Britta.
- Hi, hi.
Have you seen it?
Yes, yes. I've just seen it.
It's gathering this afternoon.
- This afternoon?
- Is that a problem?
No, just... No, it's no problem.
First of all, that class was
conducted in a tech-free zone.
And second,
whoever violated that rule
edited what we've all seen
to create linguistic traps
to completely redefine my words.
I mean, look at
the reverse shots on the students.
There's no way that was done
in real time. It's a hatchet job.
I'm sure that's true, Lydia.
And were it just this video,
we would not be sitting here.
Unfortunately,
it's linked to an article
in the New York Post
regarding Krista Taylor's suicide
which alludes
to other Accordion fellows
they claim to have interviewed.
Laura, can you tell us
about your conversations?
We haven't had any.
Obviously, we gave no response
as we first wanted to meet
to discuss strategy.
- Here's the article.
- Thank you, Laura.
"Enticed and groomed
multiple young women
"to engage in sex acts
for professional favors.
Blocked opportunities
to those who didn't comply."
This is total fiction.
And the Post is
a how-de-do scandal rag.
No serious person reads it.
And so far as Krista Taylor goes
she was disturbed.
I mean, she fixated on me.
In what way?
She sent me weird gifts.
She trolled me online.
She tried to send me signals.
Well, what kind of signals?
She vandalized my Wikipedia page
to say she was my muse.
I mean, that's easily checked, right?
And did you ever report this
or file a complaint?
No.
No. And I... Look, I probably...
I probably should have.
I... I felt sorry for her.
Is this something
you shared with Sharon?
No. I didn't want
to burden her with it.
- Don't you think you should have?
- Yes. Yes.
Well, what... what do you advise?
Well, for now, it hasn't gotten
all that much traction.
None of the trades have linked to it
or called for comment.
So I say let's see what happens.
We wanted to give you
as much warning as possible, Lydia
before this Friday's donor meeting.
Well, unfortunately,
I won't be there.
Well, I very much advise
that you are.
I have the book launch in New York
and apparently a deposition.
Well, we'll fill you in
upon your return, then.
Enjoy your weekend.
Starving.
Finished my thing today.
Congratulations.
We should go out and celebrate.
I can't. I gotta pack.
Hi!
Sharon?
Yeah?
You seen my performance score?
No.
Why? Isn't it with the other ones?
No. No, it's not.
Are you sure it's not in my office?
Yeah, what about
the orchestra library?
Yeah, can you check again, please?
I don't know. Yes, exactly.
Lydia?
Yes?
When will you be back?
The day after tomorrow.
Will you promise?
Yes, I promise.
- Good night.
Thanks. Do you have any bottles?
Of course.
Do you need anything else
before I close the cabin door?
Yes. We're waiting on one more.
To all my questions
pertaining to your communications
with Krista Taylor and others
your answers have always been
"I don't know"
or "I don't remember."
Is there anything I could show you
that might help refresh
your recollection?
Any documents, such as
emails from you or
your personal assistant, Miss Lentini
that might help you recall
what you did and didn't say?
I guess you heard by now.
Bryant Park bumped you
to 53rd Street.
This is the Kaplan Fund's
prepared statement.
I'm sorry to say this is likely
the last time we'll see each other.
Well, now I can buy
my own plane tickets.
And you can bother someone else
to try and teach you
to crawl to the podium.
Is there a back entrance?
"Indeed, the common metaphors
used to explain music
"are based on the idea that music
is a language, albeit a secret one.
"And in this way,
holy and unknowable.
"These joyful noises we make
being the closest thing
"any of us might ever
experience to the divine...
"yet something born
by the mere act of moving air.
No different than birdsong."
So, meet downstairs
in half an hour for dinner?
Thank you, but I am jet-lagged.
I go to sleep now.
Yeah, me, too. I'll...
probably do the same.
Yes, hello.
Yes, there's no water in my room.
Yes, I've checked the minibar.
How long would it take
to get a bottle of water?
Don't worry. I'll just come down.
Lobby, please.
Oh, Jesus.
It was Britta.
Right?
I mean, that is how you heard
about these millennial robots
trading in lies.
I couldn't care less
about the Juilliard thing.
Too much time on her hands.
She's fringe.
The worst kind.
Every time I walk out of this house
she's in your ear with intrigue
or she's asking me about
some other piece of fringe,
like Samantha Hankey.
God, a nobody
who has nothing better to do
than drop my name at lunch
and imply things.
I feel sorry for you.
Save it.
I tried calling you last night.
Did you have fun with her?
My back is killing me.
Francesca left, and I simply needed
someone to carry my bags.
I mean, who was I supposed to ask?
To go with me? Knut?
Jesus fucking...
There are many things
I accept about you.
And in the end, I'm sure I could
get over something like this.
But that's not what
we're talking about, is it?
These accusations
from the parents of the girl
who suicided?
You honestly believe
what they're saying?
They're lies.
Do you understand what it was like
to walk into my sectional yesterday
and to see everybody
whispering about me?
It's got nothing to do with
what they're accusing you of.
It's a simple matter
of not warning me
that our family is in danger.
And what good would that have done?
I mean, what could you possibly do
to make things better?
Because I deserve that.
Those are the rules.
You are to ask for my fucking counsel
the way you always have.
The way you did
when you first arrived here
as a guest conductor
looking for a permanent position.
You asked me what were the politics
what were the moves,
how could we swing it.
Of course...
these conversations
took place in another bed.
Or rather, the couch
of that horrible place
- you still can't let go of.
- Old sorrow blows in.
How cruel of you to define
our relationship as transactional.
There's only one relationship
you've ever had that wasn't.
And she is sleeping
in the room next door.
Apparently, this hasn't
even crossed your mind.
Petra!
Come here, darling.
- It was good.
- Was it?
- Yeah.
- You want to go to the park?
Don't do this. Please don't do this.
Please don't.
Hello. I am Anna Franzen.
This is my late mother's apartment.
Oh, yeah, I'm so sorry
about your mother.
Thank you.
How's your sister doing?
Eleanor lives now
in a facility in Neukölln.
I'm sorry to trouble you
but my husband and I
are selling the place
and couldn't help hearing the music.
Oh.
I'm glad you enjoyed it.
We were wondering if there are
specific hours you rehearse
so we can schedule
showings around them.
We don't want
to scare potential buyers off
with all the noise.
Oh, no.
No.
No, we wouldn't want that.
Apartment for sale
Your mother's buried deep
And now you're gonna keep
Her apartment for sale
Your sister's in jail
You put your sister in jail
You're all going to hell
Your apartment's for sale
Okay.
(German)
Give me some eyes.
Come on, give me some eyes!
Lydia.
This is my score.
Lydia, you're confused.
It's my score!
You fucking little nothing!
I'm fine.
You sign CAMI voucher.
Normally, I'd think Lisa Rich
in our booking department
would be a great fit for you
but she's just got
too much on her plate.
So, I'd like to team you
with Jake here.
Jake, you want to...
you want to show Lydia
what you've prepared for her?
Well...
right now it's a reset.
What we're after is less, not more.
We want to be selective
and rebuild this from the ground up.
That means we need a new story.
Just here.
Here. Thank you.
Make it 40.
Thank you.
Didn't you feel triumphant?
Now we can really understand
what the meaning of music is.
It's the way it makes you feel
when you hear it.
Finally, we've taken
that last giant step.
And we're there.
We know what music means now.
And we don't have to know
a lot of stuff about sharps
and flats and chords
and all that business
in order to understand music
if it tells us something.
And the most wonderful thing of all
is that there's no limit
to the different kinds of feelings
music can make you have.
And some of those feelings
are so special and so deep
that they can't even
be described in words.
You see, we can't always name
the things we feel.
Sometimes we can.
We can say we feel joy
pleasure, peacefulness,
whatever, love, hate.
But every once in a while
we have feelings that are
so deep and so special
that we have no words for them.
And that's where
music is so marvelous
because music names them for us,
only in notes instead of in words.
It's all in the way music moves.
You must never forget
that music is movement
always going somewhere,
shifting and changing
and flowing from one note to another.
And that movement can tell us
more about the way we feel
than a million words can.
And here we're going to play you a...
Tony.
Oh.
Hi, Linda.
Sorry.
Lydia.
Ma said you'd be over.
You must be hiding out.
Why would I be hiding out?
Beats the hell out of me.
None of my business anyhow.
Lot of loose ends, you got to admit.
What do you mean?
Well, like I said,
it ain't my business.
But you don't seem to know
where the hell you came from
or where you're going.
May I come inside?
Thank you.
I'm so sorry.
We just wanted to confirm
that the composer was in fact
not flying in from Osaka
to attend the concert.
I... I must tell you that
I... I looked in the music libraries
for her score,
but I... I couldn't find anything.
This just arrived.
That's great. Thank you.
Shirley and Cirio will be most happy
to show you the sights
- of our beautiful country.
- Thank you.
Thank you so much.
Oh, goodness.
Thank... thank you.
Maybe we could stop somewhere
and take a swim.
Yeah, at the waterfall.
But not in the river.
Why? Is there something wrong
with the water?
No. There are crocodiles.
Oh.
I didn't think
they'd be this far inland.
They escaped from
Marlon Brando movie.
Wow.
That was a long time ago.
They survive.
Lady. Lady.
Here is prescription.
- Ten dollars.
- Oh. Thank you.
Is there somewhere
around here... Thank you.
Where I could get a massage?
Was hoping it might help me
with this jet lag.
Yes.
There is the very nice place I know.
Thank you.
Please step over to the fishbowl.
The... the fishbowl?
Yes, over there.
I'm sorry, I'm confused.
H-How does this... how does it work?
You just pick a number here.
I pick a number?
Yes.
Number five?
Good morning.
Now, before we begin,
let's... let's talk a bit
about the composer's intent
with this piece.
And what she might be after.
Five minutes.
Thank you.
Sisters and brothers
of the Fifth Fleet, it's time.
I'll keep my farewell brief.
Never was much with words.
Once you board this ship,
there's no turning back.
The next ground your feet touch
will be that of the New World.
If any of you have lost your nerve
then step away now
and let no one judge you.